Auth 825/iam v2 guide update (#1838)
chef/automate: components/automate-chef-io/content/docs/iam-v2-guide.md

## Policy Conversion

Now that you are up-and-running with v2 policies, as the first step we recommend that you reconstitute your v1 policies as v2 policies.
Once that is done, delete the old legacy v1 policies and you will have a clean, up-to-date system.

Alternately, you can run `--skip-policy-migration` on upgrade to start without any policies at all. You will still need to create new v2 policies to preserve any IAM behavior from v1.

> Note that several legacy policies (Compliance Profile Access and Ingest Access) have API tokens that will stop working if not ported. Alternately,

Author: what's the warning short code?

> Note that several legacy policies (Compliance Profile Access and Ingest Access) have API tokens that will stop working if not ported. Alternately,

Reviewer: ```{{% warning %}}
{{% /warning %}}```

## Policy Conversion

Now that you are up-and-running with v2 policies, as the first step we recommend that you reconstitute your v1 policies as v2 policies.
Once that is done, delete the old legacy v1 policies and you will have a clean, up-to-date system.

> Alternately, you can run `--skip-policy-migration` on upgrade to start without any policies at all. You will still need to create new v2 policies to preserve any IAM behavior from v1.

Author: I can do that-- that's our current docs, however :grimace:

(For this example's complete JSON, see the end of this section.)

```json
  "name": "Team Devops Managers",
```

That name is for human consumption; when you want to refer to the policy in commands you will need to know its ID.
So let's give this policy the ID `team-managers-admin`.

```json
  "id": "team-managers-devops",
```

Additionally, we can permission actions on this policy just like any other IAM resource by assigning it to one or more projects. We could use the wildcard value`"*"`
in the projects field, which indicates that members of this policy can perform these actions within _any_ project. If we leave the projects array

> empty, we indicate the policy is _unassigned_. For example, anyone with permission to view _unassigned_ policies can view this policy.

Author: oh that's a copy pasta prob. thanks for catching

> empty, we indicate the policy is _unassigned_. For example, anyone with permission to view _unassigned_ policies can view this policy.

Author: (I've added a reference to multiple sections on projects, now. I *think* we still need to have policies come first? A little 🐔 vs 🥚 for me on this one)

You enter a token using the expression `token:<id>`.
In order to find a token's ID, use the command in the API reference for [listing tokens]({{< relref "iam-v2-api-reference#listing-tokens" >}}).

### Projects

Projects are used to group and permission Chef Automate resources, ingested client-runs and compliance nodes.

Projects can be managed via the Projects list under the *Settings* tab and consist of an ID, a name, and a collection of rules. Project rules are lists of conditions that describe ingested
resources, so they are not necessary when assigning IAM resources such as teams or roles.

To create a project, navigate to the Projects list under the **Settings** tab and select **Create Project**. You will need to provide a name and can optionally edit the ID. You must create a project
before you can assign it to any resources.

You can use the browser to assign projects to teams and tokens. To assign projects to a team, select a team from the _Teams_ list, then select **Details**.
Likewise, to assign projects to a token, select a token from the API tokens list, then select **Details**.
In either case, you can select projects from the projects dropdown to assign.

> Presently, projects cannot be assigned to users, and must be assigned to polices and roles using the command line.

Author: As opposed to "in the UI". I'll fix that up.

## Removing Legacy Policies

> This section walks you through deleting legacy policies imported into v2, which will provide you a clean slate for exploring the IAM v2 Beta.

Reviewer: itd be really cool if we could avoid idioms like _clean slate_ and instead use plain language, this will make it easier for folks from other countries to consume our docs.

those policies, use the JSON below:

Viewers Policy:

```json
{
  "name": "Test Project Viewers",
  "id": "test-project-viewer-policy",
  "projects": ["test-project"],
  "members": [],
  "statements": [
    {
      "effect": "ALLOW",
      "role": "viewer",
      "projects": ["test-project"]
    }
  ]
}
```

Editors Policy:

```json
{
  "name": "Test Project Editors",
  "id": "test-project-editor-policy",
  "projects": ["test-project"],
  "members": [],
  "statements": [
    {
      "effect": "ALLOW",
      "role": "editor",
      "projects": ["test-project"]
    }
  ]
}
```

Now, if you would like Terry to be able to view `Test Project` and Kelly to be able to edit `Test Project`, you'll add them
as members to the relevant policies. You can do that directly in the above JSON when creating the policy, or in the browser
by selecting **Settings**, then **Policies**, then `Test-Project Policy`. Under the **Details** tab, you will find the
option to select new policy members.

Assuming Terry is not a member of any other policy, once you make Terry a member of the `Test-Project Viewer` policy,

> they will only be able to see resources assigned to `Test Project`. They will not be able to update or delete them.

Reviewer: i prefer gender neutral

> they will only be able to see resources assigned to `Test Project`. They will not be able to update or delete them.

Reviewer 2: A couple points. "They" is already stretching it; it is for informal writing rather than documentation like this. But even if we let that slide, using "they" to refer to an antecedent that is a proper name really sounds strange! That is, this is passably acceptable: "The participant indicated their preference." But this? "Bob indicated their preference".

> they will only be able to see resources assigned to `Test Project`. They will not be able to update or delete them.

Author: I don't know if I think these docs are particularly formal-- we use the imperative form pretty consistently, which is traditionally a no.

I definitely think there was a time-- and there are still formal spaces-- where the authors prefer to be gender-indicative (s/he); however, we live in a pretty different space now where the question of s/he is ambiguous in and of itself. This is to say, just because someone has a name we might associate with a "she", that person might not identify as such. So then what do we use? "It"? That's not particularly humanizing.

We do have an opportunity to assign gender here for the sake of maintaining the more traditional pronoun/possessive pairing, but we _also_ have the opportunity --subtly-- to suggest that it's not relevant/that we support all individuals regardless of their gender. 

Here's a little more on that: https://www.mypronouns.org/they-them.

As a woman, I find myself continually frustrated that for a long, long time, most technical resources (arguably, all resources, all the way to kids books) feature a male "representative". The "they" allows us to be inclusive. Happy to chat more in person.

Ultimately, though, this question might be one for the docs team.

To create a project, navigate to the Projects list under the **Settings** tab and select **Create Project**. You will need to provide a name and can optionally edit the ID. You must create a project before you can assign any resources to it.

#### Assigning Resources to Projects

You can use the browser to assign teams and tokens to projects. To assign a team to projects, select a team from the _Teams_ list, then select **Details**.
Likewise, to assign a token to projects, select a token from the API tokens list, then select **Details**.
In either case, you can select projects from the projects dropdown to assign.

You may also assign teams and tokens to projects on creation. In the creation modal, select any projects to which the new resource should belong.

Presently, policies and roles can only be assigned to projects using the CLI, not the browser. Users cannot be assigned to projects from the browser or CLI.

If you would like to delegate ownership of a project to another user so that they may assign resources, you will want to make that user a [Project Owner]({{< relref "iam-v2-guide.md#project-owners" >}}) of that project.

#### Assigning Ingested Resources to Projects

> While resources created within Automate can be directly assigned to a project, ingested resources, including Compliance reports, events, and nodes, are created outside of Automate and therefore must be assigned to projects a different way.

Reviewer 3: > While resources created within Automate can be directly assigned to a project

not _all_ resources. do we need to call that out? (honest question, not sure if it's better to define those explicitly or what)

Reviewer: yah we should, its just api tokens and teams for right now.

> While resources created within Automate can be directly assigned to a project, ingested resources, including Compliance reports, events, and nodes, are created outside of Automate and therefore must be assigned to projects a different way.

Reviewer 3: > nodes
client run nodes?

Author: @vjeffrey what do you all say? Is there a source of truth on this?

Reviewer 4: I'll go with `Infrastructure nodes` for now 🤷‍♀

> Project rules are used to associate ingested resources with projects within Automate. A project rule contains conditions that determine if an ingested resource should be moved into the rule's project.

Reviewer 3: should we mention here that audit cookbook 7.5+ is required to ensure those fields are populated on compliance reports?

Reviewer 3: oh nevermind, i see that's called out further down!

Reviewer: @vjeffrey i was curious do we call out that audit cookbook anywhere else in the automate docs? just curious, cause if so we can link to it somewhere in these docs as well.

Reviewer 3: oh shoot i saw this but forgot to look. i’m afk but i was just gonna search our docs on the site for “audit” if anyone wants to search

Reviewer 3: oh shoot i saw this but forgot to look. i’m afk but i was just gonna search our docs on the site for “audit” if anyone wants to search

Reviewer 3: i can also check myself later tonite!

$ chef-automate iam reset-to-v1
```

Note that this discards your IAM v2 policies, roles, and projects, and re-configures Chef Automate to use your v1 policies again.

<!-- TODO move this next to the rest of the projects walkthrough -->
## Assigning Projects to Ingested Resources

> While projects can be directly assigned to resources created within Automate, ingested resources, including Compliance reports, events, and nodes, are created outside of Automate and therefore must be tagged with projects a different way.

Reviewer: lets please avoid _tag_ or _tagged_ language with projects, instead lets try and use language like _moving something into a project_, or _associating something with a project_

To tag any ingested resource with a project, that project must have at least one rule. A project rule contains conditions that
determine if an ingested resource should be tagged with the rule's associated project. Each condition contains an attribute, operator, and value. See the [API reference]({{< relref "iam-v2-api-reference.md#project-rules" >}}) for details on how to manage project rules.
Take this rule for the project `project-devops` as an example:

```json
{
  "id": "devops-rule",
  "name": "devops rule",
  "type": "NODE",
  "project_id": "project-devops",
  "conditions": [
    {
      "operator": "EQUALS",
      "attribute": "CHEF_ORGANIZATION",
      "values": [
        "devops"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Once this project rule has been created, it must be applied in order to take effect. Once the project rule is in effect, all ingested resources with a `CHEF_ORGANIZATION` field that has the value `devops` will be considered a part of the `project-devops` project.
Only these resources will appear in Automate when the `project-devops` project has been selected in the global project filter.

{{% warning %}}

> Compliance reports must be using audit cookbook 7.5+ in order to make use of all of the available project rule attributes. Older reports will only have environment and role available as attributes.

Reviewer: @vjeffrey do we have a reference to this requirement in another section of the docs? if so @blakestier @bcmdarroch could we link to that here as well?

{{% /warning %}}

In this example you will add a project rule to a project you just created. You will apply this new project rule so that all matching ingested resources get tagged with the appropriate project. You will then grant a user access to only that project
and log in to that user's account to see their filtered view.

First, determine which ingested resources should belong to the project. In this example, we want to tag Compliance reports
with the Chef Organization `devops`, Infrastructure nodes with the environment `dev`, and actions on Chef Server `devops.pizza` with the project `project-devops`.
You may want to verify that those filters work as expected using the search filter bars on the Event Feed, Client Runs, and
Reports pages.

{{% info %}}

> It is important to note that Compliance and Infrastructure resources will not necessarily match under the same conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compliance and Infrastructure resources will not necessarily match under the same conditions.
```

Reviewer: also, is this really true? im confused about this, shouldnt we just highlight that the nodes are different, like im pretty sure they can still have 1 rule to govern them both.

Reviewer 4: that's at least what happens in my dev environment 🤷‍♀so ya that might be too literal. definitely would appreciate pointers on the wording here from superteam! @vjeffrey @lancewf

Reviewer 5: If a condition for example of Chef Organization equals `devops` does not match both compliance and client runs nodes then that is a bug.

Reviewer 3: +1 on what lance said -- if you've seen this behaviour in your dev env @bcmdarroch , could you open a bug issue detailing repro steps?

Reviewer 4: just did some testing, and I found that if both an infra and compliance node match a condition, they get the project. however, this only worked when i used `Environment`. When I made a condition with `Chef Organization`, the infra nodes didn't get put in the project. :/ So I'll make a bug card for that. Then rewrite these lines

Separate conditions governing Compliance and Infrastructure resources should be used. Similarly, events require conditions of `EVENT` type to be tagged correctly. A condition of type `NODE` will not match an event, even if the condition's
operator, attribute, and value all match (and vice versa with `EVENT` project rules and node).
{{% /info %}}

> Navigate to the project details page of `project-devops`, created in the previous section, by heading to `https://{{< example_fqdn "automate" >}}/settings/projects/project-devops` or from the project list page.

Reviewer: can we anchor link to the mention of _previous section_ instead of saying _previous section_?

<!-- TODO empty project details screenshot -->

> Select the `Create Rule` button to open a full-page modal where you can create a new project rule. First choose type `NODE` then fill in the first condition's fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the `Create Rule` button to create a new project rule. Choose type `NODE` then fill in the first condition's fields.
```

> Feel free to create dummy ingest data that corresponds to the example json above, or come up with a condition that matches your existing data set.

Reviewer: could we say _fake_ instead of _dumb_ here? or some other alternative?

<!-- TODO create rule page screenshot -->

Save the rule. If you need to change the name or the conditions, select the project rule name on the project details page.

You should see a message that says `Edits are pending: update projects to apply edits.` Select the `projects` link in the message to go back to the project list page.

On the project list page, the button `Update Projects` should be enabled since a new rule has been added to a project. Select that button and confirm the action in the modal that pops up.

<!-- TODO update projects button -->

<!-- TODO update projects modal -->

> Updating a project begins a process that applies the latest version of every project rule to ingested resources. Applying a rule to an ingested resource means tagging it with the correct project(s) according to any matching project rule conditions.

Reviewer: can we drop the parens on projects please

$ chef-automate iam reset-to-v1
```

Note that this discards your IAM v2 policies, roles, and projects, and re-configures Chef Automate to use your v1 policies again.

<!-- TODO move this next to the rest of the projects walkthrough -->
## Assigning Projects to Ingested Resources

> While resources created within Automate can be directly added to a project, ingested resources, including Compliance reports, events, and nodes, are created outside of Automate and therefore must be added to projects a different way.

Reviewer 2: Using em-dashes will help the reader.
```suggestion
While resources created within Automate can be directly added to a project, ingested resources--including Compliance reports, events, and nodes--are created outside of Automate and therefore must be added to projects a different way.
```

> Project rules are used to associate ingested resources with projects within Automate. A project rule contains conditions that determine if an ingested resource should be moved into the rule's project.

Reviewer 2: "moved into" ?? Shouldn't "assign" be used here?

Each condition contains an attribute, operator, and value.

{{% info %}}

> See the [API reference]({{< relref "iam-v2-api-reference.md#project-rules" >}}) for details on how to manage project rules.

Reviewer: could we get _project rules_ into the link text?

{{% /info %}}

> In this example you will add a project rule to the project `project-devops`, created as part of the [project creation walkthrough]({{< relref "iam-v2-guide.md#creating-a-project" >}}).

Reviewer: it be cool in the link text could match the header exactly, _creating a project_.. so either change the link text or the heading

You will update projects to apply this new project rule, causing all matching ingested resources to be associated with the appropriate project.

> You will use the global project filter to filter your ingested data by `project-devops`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will use the global project filter to filter your ingested data by `project-devops`.
```
```suggestion
You will then use the global project filter to filter your ingested data by `project-devops`.
```

First, determine which ingested resources should belong to the project. In this example, we want to add the following ingested resources to `project-devops`:

* Compliance reports with Chef Organization `devops`
* Infrastructure nodes with Environment `dev`
* actions on Chef Server `devops.pizza`

You may want to verify that those filters work as expected using the search filter bars on the Event Feed, Client Runs, and

> Reports pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reports pages, respectively.
```

Navigate to the project details page of `project-devops`, created in the previous section, either by heading directly to `https://{{< example_fqdn "automate" >}}/settings/projects/project-devops` or selecting the project name on the project list page.

Select the `Create Rule` button to create a new project rule. Choose type `Node` then fill in the first condition's fields.
Feel free to create fake ingest data that corresponds to the example json below, or come up with a condition that matches your existing data set.

{{% warning %}}
Compliance reports must be using audit cookbook 7.5+ in order to make use of all of the available project rule attributes. Older reports will only have environment and role available as attributes.
{{% /warning %}}

```json
{
  "id": "devops-rule",
  "name": "devops rule",
  "type": "NODE",
  "project_id": "project-devops",
  "conditions": [
    {
      "operator": "EQUALS",
      "attribute": "CHEF_ORGANIZATION",
      "values": [
        "devops"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

![](/images/docs/create-project-rule.png)

> Save the rule. If you need to change the name or the conditions, select the project rule name on the project details page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Save the rule. (If you later need to change the name or the conditions, select the project rule name on the project details page.)
```

You should see a message that says `Edits are pending: update projects to apply edits.` Select the `projects` link in the message to go back to the project list page.

On the project list page, the button `Update Projects` should be enabled since a new rule has been added to a project. You should also see `Edits pending` in the Ingest Rules column of `project-devops` in the projects table. Select `Update Projects` and confirm the action in the modal that pops up.

![](/images/docs/update-projects-button.png)

> Updating a project begins an operation that applies all pending rule edits and then moves ingested resources into the correct projects according to those latest changes. An ingested resource is moved into a project only if it matches any of the project's rule conditions.

Reviewer: maybe _at least one_ instead of _any_?

Reviewer 2: Agree to "at least one", but should say "at least one of the project's rules", not "at least one of the project's rule _conditions_".

In this example, upon successful update, all ingested resources whose Chef Organization matches `devops` will be considered a part of the project `project-devops`.
Only these resources will appear in Automate's dashboards when the `project-devops` project has been selected in the global project filter.

As the operation takes place, you should see a percentage count up within the `Update Projects` button. You may cancel the update at any time by selecting
`Stop Updating Projects` and confirming the cancel in the modal that pops up.

{{% warning %}}

> Avoid stopping an update unless absolutely necessary. It will leave your system in an in-between state where only some resources have been moved into their updated projects while others still remain in old projects. Only another successful update will restore the system to a happy state.

Reviewer 2: s/in-between/unknown/
("In-between" raises several questions to me)

{{% /warning %}}

Once rules have been successfully applied, the update button will change to `Projects Up-to-Date` and be disabled until the next

> time a change is made to any project.

Reviewer: maybe reinforce the language in the ui here, so _pending edits_

![](/images/docs/global-projects-filter.png)

Now that we have the first set of our ingested data associated with our new project, let's add another condition and a new rule to
add more data to `project-devops`.

{{% info %}}
Compliance and Infrastructure ingested resources will not necessarily match under the same conditions since they are not
the exact same nodes and do not have all the same matching fields.
Separate conditions governing said resources may need to be used. Similarly, ingested events require conditions of `Event` type to be associated correctly. A condition of type `Node` will not match an event, even if the condition's
operator, attribute, and value all match exactly (and vice versa with `Event` project rules and nodes).
{{% /info %}}

Back at the project details page (`https://{{< example_fqdn "automate" >}}/settings/projects/project-devops`), select the name
of the rule just created.

Add a condition. In this example, we'll add a condition for resources with the attribute `Environment`, operator `equals`, and value `dev`. Save the rule.

> Back on the project details page, select `Create Rule`. This time, choose resource type `Event`. Add a condition for resources with the Chef Server `devops.pizza`, or any value matching your data set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return again to the project details page and select `Create Rule`. This time, choose resource type `Event`. Add a condition for resources with the Chef Server `devops.pizza`, or any value matching your data set.
```
